Stack smashing
```c
void func(char* string){
	// Both variables are allocated on the stack
	char buffer[80]; // 80 bytes
	int num; // 4 bytes

	// copies from string to buffer, null-terminated
	// will write outside of the allocated memory if used incorrectly
	strcpy(buffer, string);
}
```

```
[ Buffer(80) ] [ Num(4) ] [ ret.address(8) ]
```

Goal: Override return address with a pointer to our malicious code (in buffer).
We need to get memory addresses for buffer and return address.

Malicious code will start a new shell, that's why it's called "shellcode".

We need to disable OS protections to carry out this attack.

1. Stack protector: Random number placed between the last allocated block and the return address. When returning, the integrity of the stack protector is checked. Turn off using `-fno-stack-protector`.
2. Non-executable stack: Modern operating systems forbid executable code in the stack. Enforced on the hardware level, very hard to circumvent. Turn off using `-zexecstack`
3. ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization): Operating system level protection, moves the program to a different, random place in memory each time it is run. Turn off using `env - setarch -R <command>`

Find pid `ps aux | grep vuln`

Compile command: `gcc -o vuln code.c -fno-stack-protector -zexecstack -g`
Use `-g` to include debug symbols

Start `gdb` (with sudo) then attach to the `pid`. 
Use `c` in gdb to continue execution to the breakpoint.
Use `info frame` in gdb to get info on the current stack frame:
```
Stack level 0, frame at 0x7fffffffdd50:
 rip = 0x5555555553bf in func (code.c:51); saved rip = 0x555555555449
 called by frame at 0x7fffffffdd80
 source language c.
 Arglist at 0x7fffffffdd40, args: string=0x55555555a490 "Hello I am a file."
 Locals at 0x7fffffffdd40, Previous frame's sp is 0x7fffffffdd50
 Saved registers:
  rbp at 0x7fffffffdd40, rip at 0x7fffffffdd48
```
We are interested in `Saved registers`, `rip` is the address of the return address, `saved rip` is the actual return address.

Use `p &buffer` in gdb to print the contents of the buffer and its address.

Use `python3 script.py 0x7fffffffdd48 0x7fffffffdcf0 hello.txt` to write the malicious code to the text file.
If we use the modified text file as the input of our `vuln` program, it starts `sh` instead of exiting.

Use `next` in gdb to run the next line.
